=head2 bin_err

=for usage

  %hash = bin_err( $data, $err, $min_sn, [ \%options ]  );

=for ref

Adaptively bin a data set using errors.

This routine ignores data with bad values or with errors that have
bad values.

B<bin_err> groups data into bins such that each bin achieves a minimum
signal to noise ratio (S/N).  The data are typically dependent values
(e.g. flux as a function of energy or counts as a function of radius).
The data should be sorted by the independent variable (e.g. energy or
radius).

Binning begins at the start of the data vector.  Data are accumulated
into a bin until the minimum S/N (specified by B<$min_sn>) is met.
The signal is the sum of the data and the noise is the RSS error in
the bin.  If the final bin has insufficient S/N, it is folded into the
previous bin.

Additional constraints may be placed upon how the data are binned.
The caller may bound the number of input data elements assigned to a
bin.  Each datum may be assigned a "width" and the sum of those
widths may be used to bound the association of data to a bin.

=head3 Options

Options are parsed by PDL::Options, so unique abbreviations are accepted.

=over

=item nmin (default: 1 )

The minimum number of elements per bin

=item nmax (default: 0 )

The maximum number of elements per bin; set to zero for no limit.

=item wmin (default: 0 )

=item wmax (default: 0 )

The minimum and maximum width for a bin; set to zero for no limit.
These options require that the C<width> option also be set.

=item width

A piddle containting the "width" of each datum.  It must have the same
dimensions as the input data.

=back

=head3 Results

B<bin_err> returns a hash with the following entries:

=over

=item C<bin>

A piddle containing the bin indices for the elements in the input
data piddle.  Data which were skipped because of bad values will have
their index set to the bad value.

=item C<sum>

A piddle containing the sum of the data values in each bin.

=item C<nelem>

A piddle containing the number of data elements in each bin.

=item C<sigma>

A piddle containing the RSS of the errors in each bin.

=item C<width>

A piddle containing the width of each bin.  It will be empty
if no input width constraints were specified.

=item C<ifirst>

A piddle containing the index into the input data piddle of the first
data value in a bin.

=item C<ilast>

A piddle containing the index into the input data piddle of the last
data value in a bin.

=item C<rc>

A piddle containing a results code for each output bin.  The code is
the bitwise "or" of the following constants (available in the
C<CXC::PDL::Bin1D> namespace)

=over

=item BIN_OK

The bin met the minimum S/N, data element count and width requirements

=item BIN_GEWMAX

The bin width was greater or equal to that requested.

=item BIN_GENMAX

The number of data elements was greater or equal to that requested.

=item BIN_FOLDED

The bin is the result of folding bins at the end of the bin vector to
achieve a minimum S/N.

=item BIN_GTMINSN

The bin accumulated more data elemetns than was necessary to meet the
S/N requirements.  This results from constraints on the minimum number
of data elements or bin width.

=back

=back


=cut
