=head2 bin_sdev

=for usage

  %hash = bin_sdev( $data, $min_sn, [ \%options ] );

=for ref

Adaptively bin a data set using the standard deviation.

This routine ignores bad-valued data.

B<bin_sdev> groups data into bins whose widths are chosen to achieve a
minimum signal to noise ratio (S/N).  The data are typically dependent
values (e.g. flux as a function of energy or counts as a function of
radius).  The data should be sorted by the independent variable
(e.g. energy or radius).

Binning begins at the start of the data vector.  Bins are grown until
the minimum S/N (specified by B<$min_sn>) is met, where the signal is
the sum of the data and the noise is the standard deviation of the
data in the bin.  If the final bin has insufficient S/N, it is folded
into the previous bin.  The minimum and maximum number of elements in
a bin may be specified via the option hash.  In order to avoid
singularities in S/N, bins must have a minimum of two elements

B<bin_sdev> returns a hash with the following entries:

=over

=item C<bin>

The bin indices for the elements in the input data piddle.  Data which
were skipped because of bad values will have their index set to the bad value.

=item C<sum>

The sum of the data values in each bin.

=item C<nelem>

The number of data elements in each bin.

=item C<sigma>

The standard deviation of the data in each bin.

=item C<ifirst>

The index into the input data piddle of the first data value in a bin.

=item C<ilast>

The index into the input data piddle of the last data value in a bin.

=back

=head3 Options

Options are parsed by PDL::Options, so unique abbreviations are accepted.

=over

=item nmin (default: 2 )

The minimum number of elements per bin. Must be greater than one.

=item nmax (default: 0 )

The maximum number of elements per bin; set to zero for no limit.

=back


=cut
